I'm certainly no expert on recreational
frequent
I read a question one of the treatment
climbing before the guys were wondering
if you could leave your climbing last
three well I wouldn't do that
this train now we're pretty fortunate
this is a nice white ash and it's in our
backyard see it's right here they've hit
right behind her house now I'm gonna
show you some of our solutions this is
ground underneath our climbing tree now
don't get upset we normally don't allow
it to be this bare and compact the roots
and the dirt around the roots and
everything but the wind is really
blowing and it's blown all of our mulch
which is leaves away from the base of
the tree now as you can see there's a
lot of dirt on over you can see that
there's all kinds of sticks limbs in the
summertime occasionally some poison ivy
or something will sprout up so roughly
at night my 10 foot in tarp that I can
find and it came with these two bunches
which is really handy because it you can
roll it up and keep it all sized up it
easy to grab it and everything here's
the tarp spread out on the ground
underneath the tree now the reason that
I started doing this was basically to
keep my rope clean and also like I
mentioned earlier occasionally you'll
have poison ivy or something on the
ground keeps you rope out out of the
dirt and employs an ivy it worked really
well anyway it also gives you a place to
keep your gear clean while you're
putting it on everything right here
solutions that we've figured out this is
just regular small now on
utility places Ace Hardware or one of
the tools for flat places and as you can
see we have it tied off to a small tree
here I know it's probably not for this
thing dude but you can follow this cord
and a half from the ground
here's the one that we leave in the tree
it's I think it's like five bucks for
this
you know it's relatively inexpensive
you'll go through it because it it rots
staying in the tree so every month or so
you need to actually change your climate
your I'm sorry your you're lying in your
tree if you don't you'll start breaking
it and you'll just have to reset your
throw line okay here's our chords that
we're leaving the tree in we have it
tied to the tree obviously not tied we
don't want to strangle the triggering
thing the other end we're going to tie
our fur line to free summer action you
can't leave this tree very long it will
rot and the throw line puts a lot less
stress on the cord that we leave it in
tree it seems work for a will ok real
briefly just tie the two torch together
use your favorite not too personal any
rope the reason that we have this tied
in the tree I'll explain later that you
need to leave that in tied to the tree
this end you're going to pull up over
there you can see the other
the throat line has started down okay
here's the zing it throw line attached
to the climbing rope in this case it's a
hundred and fifty foot of armor
Harbormaster Blue Streak you can see the
leather can be able to savor I like that
better than the strapping ring type it's
a little quicker to use the way we climb
okay there's the climbing tree after
your climbing you get all your gear off
and everything your rope chain here okay
what we're gonna want to do to preserve
our climbing limb you know so we can do
it quickly next time it's done tie all
of our knots our friction not our saddle
not there okay here's our stay in the
tree line we'll call it dangling from
the end tied in so fixin to pull cambium
saver out now this explains why this end
state statute the tree cent little land
will really burn you and basically cut
you once you're climbing line and
cambium saver comes out you're going to
have to control the small line if it
gets away from you turn loose no big
deal
you're tied in you're not tied in it's
going to pull that end of it straight up
and over that limb anyways
their last tree and you'll have to reset
you throw them here's our string stays
on the tree
there you have tramp and Aaron's
technique on being able to leave the
line in the tree and be able to come out
and quickly set our climbing line here
and we able to climb just within 15
minutes and do it safely that's not
rushing that's paying attention to doing
it right so anyway I hope our little
ideas help somebody get to climb or or
something because I'll be the first to
admit I totally stink at throwing a
throw wait and throw line 45 foot up
into a tree and isolating the limb that
I want to plan one so this helps us to
climb more and okay here's another rule
after the climb and you can't find your
cell phone so you go in the house you
pick up the phone you call your cell
phone start walking around I always get
your cell phone out of throw line bag
when you pack it up